# Blog-Spring-REST-Application
A Spring Boot Java application, using Java 17, Spring Boot JPA, Lombok with Maven. The application is an implementation of a food related Blog  where users can create posts, which can be liked and commented on by him other users. Each user has an user role (admin, user). 

The project's structure has several layers - Entity, DTO (Persistece), Repository, Service (Business) and Controller layers. The project uses Hibernate which automatically generates the tables, based on the Entities. PosgreSQL is used for the database. In the Entity layers we have the structure of each Entity(Table) - users, posts, comments, likes. In the DTO layer we have objects, which we use in the requests to the server, instead of the table objects, capsulating them instead. The Dto objects are mapped to the Entity objects using Mapstruct. The mapping is configured in the class files in the /mappers directory. The controllers get Dto objects from Postman, redirects them to the service layer, deals with the returned response and returns http response the with dto object body to the frontend. 
 The project has custom exceptions in the exceptionHandlers directory, which are handled using a Controller Advice class named "ControllerExceptionHandler" , which configurates http response to the end user. There are also custom validations in the validators directory. The JsonRequestValidator class uses the  reflection API to validate  if the the json requests are constructed correctly. 

The configurations of the connection to the db, the hibernate are in the application.property file. All dependencies are made in the pom.xml file. Some of the dependencies - Spring boot, postgresql driver, Lombok to reduce boilerplade code, Actuator for monitoring and managing the Spring web application, spring-boot-starter-test and junit for basic unit tests, mapstruct for automatric mapping of the Entity objects to Dto objects and vice - versa.
